# CS250-Portfolio

# How do I interpret user needs and implement them into a program? How does creating “user stories” help with this?
It's important to have conversations with users to understand what they need and want from an application, as well as understand how they plan to use the application. Creating user stories helps with the process because it involves taking the important details from these conversations and outlining the requirements along with the intended behaviors. The stories themselves act as references back to the conversations so that they can be used during development when the user isn't immediately available. The best way to gather information for these needs is by asking questions during the conversations with users and clarifying their requirements with them as well. It's best to listen and not override them during conversation because it's essential to understand what the user is expecting from their point of view. It's fine to make suggestions, but the main idea is being engaged and and an active listener.

# How do I approach developing programs? What agile processes do I hope to incorporate into my future development work?
In my own projects I come up with an idea, and do a little bit of preliminary planning of how I might engineer or architect the application. From there I like to determine a first task and start working on the code to make the functionality work, and debug/test along the way if it's not working as intended. I feel that this approach closely mirrors the agile approach since the agile manifesto itself mentions "delivering working software frequently" as one of the 12 principles, and additionally, "working software is the primary measure of progress". I find myself as more of a hands-on developer who enjoys being active with the coding process and making things work while not afraid to make mistakes and fail along the way, and agile also embraces this philosophy. When I picture myself on a scrum team, I can visualize the initial planning that I do to be very similar to collaborating on the formation of the team's agile charter and initial sprint planning, except that instead of doing it by myself I would be working together with my team members to accomplish this task. I also find myself doing lightweight documentation/sketches when coding to have an idea of what the product should look like and how it should work. Similarly I would imagine this to be akin to user stories and test cases in the scrum world.

# What does it mean to be a good team member in software development?
Being a good team member means knowing when to listen and when to speak. It's important to let your other team members voice their concerns and opinions and also equally important to give value to them as well even if you disagree with their ideas. Being a good team member also means being able to offer your knowledge to others in a constructive manner when they need or especially ask for your help. In the same regard, it's equally important to set aside your own pride and be able to ask for help from others when you need it yourself. General presence is important to be an effective team member: if you aren't physically there or if you don't make yourself avaialable for the team, then you might as well be working alone which is the definition of not being part of a team! This may seem like an obvious statement, but many times people would prefer to be by themselves, working alone, even in team settings, so it's important to make the point nonetheless. Lastly, I believe that being a good team member means always striving for the best for yourself while not imposing the same level of standards on anybody else. To be a great team player you should always be trying to improve or learn, becoming more skilled and knowledgable so that you have more to offer without simultaneously having an elitist set of expectations for those around you.
